14 Monuments to see in Philadelphia
Do you love art? When you travel do you make it a point to 
see public monuments, sculptures, and statues? There are many 
monuments to see in Philadelphia. Whether you are planning a 
visit Philadelphia, or if you live here but haven’t noticed 
these monuments to see in Philadelphia’s museum district, 
this list is for you.  In our research to develop a Tourist 
Scavenger Hunt in Philadelphia’s museum district, we’ve come 
across much information, some of which can only be gleaned 
when doing the actual scavenger hunt.

However, we also wanted to share some of that information 
with you for your visit planning. Here are 14 monuments to 
see in Philadelphia.

14 Monuments to see in Philadelphia

Philadelphia City HallThomas Paine Plaza
Across from City Hall to the north, you will find Thomas 
Paine Plaza and collection of quirky monuments. These 
include larger than life board game tokens and pieces. 
The various pieces were designed by Daniel Martinez, and 
Renee Petropoulis and Roger White. This public art exhibit
called “Your Move” saw its first day in 1996.
36 feet tall William Penn. This tall bronze statue stands
 atop Philadelphia’s City Hall. No building in this city 
 was higher than the brim of his hat until 1987. The statue
  faces northeast towards Penn Treaty Park. Alexander Milne 
  Calder sculptured this statue.
Compass BFamilias Separadas. This giant compass including 
the positioning of zodiac symbols called Familias Separadas 
is in the center of City Hall’s courtyard. In particular, 
like the game pieces at Thomas Paine Plaza, this painted 
compass is larger than life. Michelle Angela Ortiza, artist,
 created this work of art for the city.
 Love ParkYou will find the world-famous Love Sign in John 
 F. Kennedy Plaza, commonly referred to as Love Park. This 
 plaza is located northeast of City Hall, between it and 
 Logan Square. Robert Indiana, artist, and sculptor is
  behind this public art installation.
Paint Brush
Claes Oldenburg designed the Paint Brush located at
 Lenfest Plaza. Paint Brush, installed here in 2011, 
 honors the act of painting. Moreover, the brush and 
 glob of paint illuminate the plaza at night.
Grumman Greenhouse
Grumman GreenhouseJordan Griska designed and sculpted 
the Grumman Greenhouse located at Lenfest Plaza. The 
Grumman Tracker II flew anti-submarine bombing missions 
during the cold war era. Griska obtained the decommissioned 
plane and folded the metal of the nose and body of the plane
 so that it appears to be crumbling into the platform. In 
 addition, he turned the existing sections of the plane 
 into working greenhouses. Ultimately, this lead to the 
 name of the piece – Grumman Greenhouse.
Benjamin Franklin Parkway
Benjamin Franklin PkwyThis broad avenue stretching from 
Logan Square to the Philadelphia Museum of Art is often 
compared to the Champs Elysées in Paris. Museums, parks, 
public art installations and flags line Benjamin Franklin 
Parkway. The tradition of displaying flags on the Parkway 
began in 1976 as a part of the bicentennial celebration. 
New flag hoisting occurs every year since then, on Memorial 
Day. They represent countries with significant populations 
living in Philadelphia. Flags hang in alphabetical order 
from Logan Square to the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
Kopernick
A committee of Polish Americans commissioned this sculpture 
to honor Mikolaj Kopernik, known to most of us as Nicolaus
 Copernicus. Thereupon, it was erected on his 500th 
 anniversary on Benjamin Franklin Parkway next to the 
 Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter & Paul. Of course, 
 Kopernik was the Renaissance astronomer who boldly 
 theorized that the earth and other planets rotate around 
 the sun. Indeed, Sculptor Dudley Talcott symbolizes the sun
  with stainless steel disks and the earth’s orbit with a 
  16-foot ring.
Swann FountainSwann Memorial Fountain
Swann Memorial Fountain is the centerpiece of Logan Square. 
You will find it between Philadelphia’s City Hall and the 
Philadelphia Museum of Art, in the center of Benjamin F
ranklin Parkway.
Alexander Stirling Calder, son of the City Hall artist 
Alexander Milne Calder, sculpted the statues within the 
fountain. Indeed, it memorializes Dr. Wilson Cary Swann, 
founder of the Philadelphia Fountain Society. Because the 
fountain is equally visible from City Hall and from the 
Museum of Art, there is no doubt one of the most iconic 
fountains in the city. Inaugurated in 1924, the three bronze 
sculptures of Native Americans spouting water represent the 
city’s three main waterways. They are The Delaware River, 
The Schuylkill River, and the Wissahickon Creek.
The Thinker
The Thinker represents the most famous sculpture by August 
Rodin. This reproduction stands on the lawn outside the 
Rodin Museum, located along the Benjamin Franklin Parkway.
 However, its original, sculpted in 1902, stands within the 
 Musée Rodin in Paris. August Rodin was born in Paris in 
 1840 and died in Meudon, France, in 1917.
Washington Monument
Philadelphia MuseumStanding in the oval at the foot of the 
Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Washington Monument presents 
George Washington sitting atop his horse in full ceremonial 
dress. He looks poised to lead a march down the Parkway. 
Allegorical figures surround his pedestal, while the lower
 levels portray “typical” American people and animals.
Rocky
Located at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, adjacent to the 
famous Rocky steps, is a larger than life statue of Rocky 
Balboa holding his gloved hands in the air. In the first
 place, A. Thomas Schomberg sculpted this art piece 
 commissioned by Sylvester Stallone in 1980 for the movie 
 Rocky III, then it was installed here in 2006.
Clothespin
Erected in 1976 by Oldenburg is the 45-foot steel Clothespin,
 directly across 15th Street and City Hall. In contrast, 
 Center Square exists today where stood Philadelphia’s first 
 waterworks in the 1800s. It was the first public water 
 system in America to use steam for large-scale pumping.
Aero Memorial
Paul Manship designed the Aero Memorial you will find in 
Aviator Park, in front of the Franklin Institute.
We invite you to try our Philadelphia – Museum District 
Tourist Scavenger Hunt. It is a 4-hour guided walking tour
around Philadelphia’s museum district you do on your mobile
phone (how it works).  It only costs $30 for your group. 
You will enjoy seeing these monuments, statues, and street art and 
much more while completing challenges and learning Philadelphia’s 
history.

Categories: Philadelphia, Street art
Post navigation
Previous post: 6 Historical sites in Old MontrealNext post: 
9 Hollywood iconic buildings
Recent Posts
History of Brooklyn
Things to do in Historic Philadelphia
History of Washington DC
Things to do in Florence, Italy
History of Toronto’s Distillery District
Things to do in Manhattan’s Upper West Side

ABOUT TOURIST SCAVENGER HUNT
We offer self-guided walking tours combined with a scavenger 
hunt in many cities around the world. A fun way to visit!

 

