16 Attractions That Put the "Historic" in Philadelphia's Historic 
District
The quintessential stops for those who love rich stories 
steeped in history...
Whether you’re the ultimate history buff or just a fan of rich 
storytelling, Philadelphia’s Historic District has you covered, 
with plenty of must-see historic attractions that trace the 
origins of American democracy. Spanning from the Delaware River 
to 7th Street and from Vine Street to Lombard Street, the 
Historic District was at the heart of Philadelphia’s original 
city boundaries. And the number of historic sites and buildings 
here played a major factor in the declaration of Philadelphia 
as the first World Heritage City in the U.S., as designated by 
the Organization of World Heritage Cities.

Those with a hankering for historical knowledge should read on 
for the essential Historic District experiences, including 
scoring an up-close view of America’s most famous bell at the 
Liberty Bell Center, taking a stroll through one of the oldest 
continuously inhabited — and possibly most charming — streets 
in America (Elfreth’s Alley) and tossing good-luck pennies on 
the grave of Benjamin Franklin at the Christ Church Burial Ground.

Liberty Bell Center
Dramatic home of the internationally known symbol of freedom...
ne of the most iconic symbols in U.S. history, the 2,080-pound 
Liberty Bell stands proudly on Independence Mall. See it up 
close at the Liberty Bell Center and discover its powerful 
history — from the night it was rung to announce the Declaration 
of Independence to its current status as an international 
emblem of freedom and justice.

Independence Hall and Congress Hall
Birthplace of the Declaration of Independence and the U.S. Constitution...
Visionary moments in the creation of our nation unfolded in 
this monumental stopping point on Independence Mall. On a 
guided tour, visit the Assembly Room, arranged as it was during 
the Constitutional Convention in 1787, then head next door to 
Congress Hall, home of the U.S. Congress from 1790 to 1800.

Betsy Ross House
Did Betsy Ross make the first American flag or not? Ask her 
yourself when you visit the iconic home of America’s most 
famous seamstress. Chat with Betsy to hear about the history 
of the flag and her interaction with George Washington as you 
explore the tiny rooms and tight staircases of her 1740s abode.

Elfreth’s Alley
Literally step your way into history on Elfreth’s Alley, 
one of America’s oldest continuously inhabited residential 
streets. Cobblestones quilt the ground of this charming narrow 
pathway. The 32 houses once owned by some of the nation’s 
earliest craftsmen, merchants and artisans are now private 
residences, but two of the homes have been turned into an 
informative public museum.

The President’s House
Before the White House, there was The President’s House, 
home to both George Washington and John Adams, when 
Philadelphia was the capital of the United States from 1790 to 
1800. The open-air attraction commemorates the nation’s first
 executive mansion and reveals a long-obscured glimpse into the 
 lives of the enslaved Africans who toiled at the house during 
 Washington’s presidency.

Museum of the American Revolution
Just steps from Independence Hall, the Museum of the American 
Revolution traces the evolution of the American colonies from 
the earliest days of unrest through a legendary war and the 
improbable victory that led to a new nation. Immersive 
exhibitions and priceless artifacts include General 
Washington’s original headquarters tent, Revolutionary War 
weaponry, centuries-old military documents and hundreds of 
other authentic objects.

National Constitution Center
It’s only four pages long, but the U.S. Constitution is among 
the most influential and important documents in the history of 
the world. The 160,000-square-foot National Constitution Center
dives into all aspects of this amazing document — drafted just 
a few blocks away — through high-tech exhibits, artifacts and 
interactive displays.

Mother Bethel and the Richard Allen Museum
Walk on hallowed ground when you visit Mother Bethel AME Church, 
the mother church of the nation’s first black denomination. 
Founded in 1787, the church rests upon the oldest parcel of 
land continuously owned by African Americans. In its basement, 
formerly used as an Underground Railroad station, the church 
memorializes Reverend Richard Allen, its founding pastor and 
first bishop. Visitors can view Allen’s crypt and explore other
 artifacts from his time as preacher.

Weitzman National Museum of American Jewish History
Take a journey through 360 years of Jewish history in the U.S. 
at the Weitzman National Museum of American Jewish History, 
which is filled with more than 1,200 artifacts and documents, 
2,500 images, 30 original films and 13 state-of-the-art 
interactive media displays. The experience delivers a rich tale 
that traces the path of the nation’s Jewish population from 
struggling immigrants to integral citizens.

Benjamin Franklin Museum
As a scientist, diplomat, innovator and inventor, Benjamin 
Franklin certainly warrants commemoration. The Benjamin 
Franklin Museum does just that through an array of interactive 
displays that explore all aspects of his extraordinary life.

Christ Church and Christ Church Burial Ground
Constructed between 1727 and 1744, Christ Church hosted some 
prominent worshipers in its pews back in the day, including 
George Washington, Benjamin Franklin and Betsy Ross. The 
church’s burial ground, located several blocks away, also 
serves as the final resting place for a host of famous history 
makers. Throw a penny onto Benjamin Franklin’s grave while 
you’re there, as it’s said to bring good luck.

The African American Museum in Philadelphia
This museum is home to a permanent core exhibition, Audacious 
Freedom, a groundbreaking historic and cultural display 
spanning two floors and presenting the stories of African 
Americans such as Richard Allen, Octavius Catto and Harriet 
Tubman through a series of informative and interactive 
presentations. The upper galleries host a rotating calendar 
of special exhibitions.

Carpenters’ Hall
It’s not just the flawless, brick-lined Georgian architecture 
that makes Carpenters’ Hall a must-see attraction. In 1774, 
delegates from 12 colonies gathered here to vote on and pass a 
trade embargo against England, one of the first unified acts of
 defiance against King George III. This Continental Congress 
 was the first step toward the Declaration of Independence, 
 which was drafted and signed two years later at nearby 
 Independence Hall.

Powel House & Hill-Physick House
Ever wonder where a president takes his wife to celebrate 
their 20th wedding anniversary? For George Washington, that was
 the Powel House, home to 18th-century power couple Elizabeth 
 and Samuel Powel, who bedecked the rooms inside their mansion
  with museum-quality clocks, portraits and other treasures. 
  For mansion-viewing with a bit more scandal, head to the 
  Hill-Physick House, where rich marital drama between the 
  original homeowners leaves a story that’ll make you want to 
  linger and listen.

American Philosophical Society Museum
On 5th Street, next to the east wing of Independence Hall, 
Philosophical Hall (1789) was built by the American 
Philosophical Society, the nation’s first “think tank,” as 
the first U.S. museum and scientific society. Today, the
 American Philosophical Society Museum’s exhibits feature 
 treasures from the Society’s collections of over 13 million 
 manuscripts and other historical objects.

Franklin Square
With a colorful fountain show and activities like mini-golf 
and carousel rides, Franklin Square offers a carefree respite 
from the sometimes-serious business of historic sightseeing, 
but you better believe the historic elements are still there. 
This delightful patch of green space that lies  north of 
Independence Hall was one of five public squares laid out by 
William Penn in his original vision for Philadelphia. From 
Memorial Day to Labor Day, the park is home to a Once Upon a 
Nation storytelling bench, featuring short stories about the 
area from informed historical interpreters.





