Where to Stay in Philadelphia: 3 Best Areas + Coolest Hotels
Though we Americans often forget about it, opting to use our 
limited memory capacities to remember cities like Boston and
 New York in the stories about the origins of America, 
 Philadelphia is actually probably the most important city in 
 that story.

Most of the key events – including the Continental Congress 
that drafted the Declaration of Independence, and the group 
that wrote the Articles of Confederation and, later, the 
Constitution – took place in Philadelphia. 

If you want to learn about American history around the 
time of the revolution and into the early republic, 
Philadelphia should be on your list. 

I, Matt, visited Philadelphia on my own after spending 
some time together in Boston and New York City. I had a few 
extra days to spend, and was looking for somewhere that was 
easy to get to from New York, and Philadelphia quickly rose to 
the top of my list because of all the great American history 
that took place within just a few square blocks in Old City. 

Ultimately, I enjoyed Philadelphia. It’s a compact city with 
tons of history, and I basically walked everywhere I needed 
to go from my place in Old City.

There were two areas that really stood out to me as deserving
 of the moniker of “best place to stay in Philadelphia” – Old 
 City and the area right around Rittenhouse Square. 

In this guide, I’ll cover those two areas in detail, plus a 
third area that would make a good compromise between them.
 I’ll give you the pros and cons of staying in each place, 
 some neighborhood highlights that I enjoyed and think you
  might too, and a few hotel recommendations to get your 
  search started. 

Ultimately, I’m here to help you decide where to stay in 
Philadelphia, and I’m using my own experience to give you 
some insights that, hopefully, you find useful as you plan 
your own trip. 

Sound good? Let’s get into the best areas to stay in 
Philadelphia.

Where to Stay in Philadelphia: The 3 Best Areas to Stay in 
Philly. For each of the three areas we’ll cover below, 
we’ll give you all the information you need to decide which 
is the right neighborhood for you.
We’re strong believers that the best way to do it is to first 
pick the neighborhood you want to stay in, then pick a place
 within that neighborhood. That’s what you’ll see below – we’ve 
 organized this guide to first cover the neighborhoods, then 
 recommend some cool places to stay within each neighborhood. 
 We’ll start with a brief overview of the neighborhood – where 
 is it, what makes it special – before diving into a detailed 
 list of the pros and cons of staying there.

 Then we’ll give you some of the places we discovered that we 
 enjoyed (and think you will too), and a few handpicked places 
 to stay that stood out to us for one reason or another. 

 At the end of the day, you’re probably choosing between two 
 neighborhoods here. The center of Philadelphia – sandwiched 
 between the Schuylkill and Delaware rivers – is relatively 
 compact, which means there aren’t really a whole lot of 
 options for tourists. It comes down to whether you want to be 
 closer to all the historical stuff (Old City), or closer to 
 the better food and drink options (Rittenhouse Square). Some 
 guides will include places like University City – which is 
 across the river to the west and is home to the University of 
 Pennsylvania (you know it as “Penn”) and Fishtown, a 
 gentrifying area north of Old City. For 99% of visitors to 
 Philadelphia, we don’t think they’d make a good place to 
 stay because they’re a little too far out. If you’ve got three 
 days or less in the city, we think you should try to stay 
 somewhere that’s walkable to the main sights so you’re not 
 spending all your time going back and forth between your hotel 
 and the places you’re exploring. The exception is if you’re 
 visiting the University of Pennsylvania. Then it probably 
 makes sense to stay over in University City near the campus. 
 Don’t have time to read the whole guide below? No worries. 
 Here’s a summary to help you get your search started. My 
 overall recommendation is to stay within about two or three 
 blocks of Rittenhouse Square, which is by far my favorite part 
 of Philadelphia. It’s a little further away from Old City, 
 where you’ll find tourist attractions like the Liberty Bell 
 and Independence Hall, but it’s a neighborhood full of great 
 places to eat and drink, and it’s central to most of the other
places you’ll want to visit, including the three art museums 
that are a 15 minute walk to the north. Roost Rittenhouse 
Square is THE place to stay if you’re looking for a stylish, 
spacious apartment with amenities similar to a boutique hotel. 
There are also two stylish and affordable hotels here – the 
Hyatt Centric and the Motto by Hilton. 

If you want to be in the middle of all the American Revolution 
history, stay in Old City, which is on the banks of the 
Delaware River on the eastern end of the city center. This is 
the historic city center of Philadelphia, dating back to 
colonial times, and is home to the vast majority of 
revolutionary history sites, which are all centered around 
Independence National Historical Park. The neighborhood to the 
east of that park is full of art galleries, restaurants, 
locally owned shops, and more, and is well worth walking 
around to explore. For a stylish apartment, stay at Lokal 
Old City, which is where I stayed and is in my top 5 best 
places I’ve EVER stayed. It’s not cheap, but the apartments 
are gorgeous, thoughtfully laid out, and have full kitchens,
 which I appreciated and used. For a hotel in a fantastic 
 location right across the street from Independence Hall, 
 stay at the Kimpton Monaco. 
 
 Rittenhouse Square: The Coolest Area in Philadelphia
 The area around Rittenhouse Square was my personal favorite 
 part of the city, and I found myself there every single day of
  my Philadelphia itinerary for one reason or another.
One day, it was to grab coffee at Elixr. Another day, it was 
to go to happy hour at Mission Taqueria. This area is home to 
some of the best places to eat and drink in the city, which is 
why it sits at the top of my list of the best areas to stay in
 Philadelphia. My travel philosophy can be summed up by 
 “eat-walk-eat,” so it makes sense that this area would find 
 its way to the top.  While I decided to stay in Old City 
 instead, I found myself slightly regretting that decision
  because I enjoyed this area so much. Not only is it a great 
  place to eat and drink, but the location is nice and central 
  to most of Philadelphia’s attractions (with the exception of 
  Old City, which is a 15 minute subway ride or taxi away). To 
  the north, you’ll find the city’s three main art museums, 
  which are about a 15 minute walk from the park. As you venture 
  west, you’ll first find yourself in the midst of the cute row 
  houses that are emblematic of the east coast (we don’t have 
  those on the west coast), and then you’ll arrive at the 
  Schuylkill River. To the east is Reading Terminal Market
   and, further away, Old City.  And about four blocks south is 
   South Street, which you can follow east to Jim’s, which was 
   the local pick for the best Philly Cheesesteak in town 
   (TWO different people I met recommended it).  Between the 
   great food and drinks, and the central location that means 
   you’ll be able to walk to almost everything in Philadelphia,
    this place deserves its spot at the top of our list of the 
    best places to stay in Philadelphia.Plus, it has some 
    pretty cool hotels, too!

Pros and Cons of Staying near Rittenhouse Square 
Rittenhouse Square is lovely. The centerpiece of this part of 
the city is going to be Rittenhouse Square, which is a pleasant 
spot to spend a sunny morning or afternoon people watching and 
basking in the sun. Unless, of course, it’s summer, in which 
case you’re probably going to be seeking out the cover of the 
trees. 

Great food and drinks. From restaurants to bars to coffee 
shops, this area is packed with some of Philly’s best places 
to eat (outside of South Philly), mostly because they cater to 
the office workers that spend their days nearby. 

Walkable to the museums. You’ll be within walking distance
 of the trio of art museums on the northern edge of Center 
 City. We probably wouldn’t spend all of your time in a museum,
  but it’s worth choosing one (we’d go with either the Rodin 
  Museum or the Graves Foundation) and spending a few hours on it. 
Cons of staying near Rittenhouse Square

It’s (relatively) far from Old City. Most of Philadelphia’s 
historical sights are on the eastern side of Center City, and 
Rittenhouse Square sits on the western side. It’s going to 
take 30 minutes to walk between them. Which, all things 
considered, is actually not that bad compared to places 
like New York City. 

It’s expensive. This area is one of the most desirable 
locations in the city, so as you might imagine, prices are 
high. Philadelphia is a relatively affordable city compared to 
Boston or NYC, but if you’re on a tight budget, you’ll 
probably need to look elsewhere (like to the Center City). 

Rittenhouse Square: A very, very pleasant square block in the 
middle of Philadelphia’s towering office buildings with a burst 
of greenery in a concrete jungle. I found myself here multiple 
times, basking in the warm sun during my trip in the middle of 
spring, though the trees would probably be more useful for 
shade in the sweltering summer months. 

Mission Taqueria: Go for the churros with chocolate and dulce 
de leche dipping sauces. Stay for the cauliflower tacos with 
peanut salsa. Or the guacamole. Or the $6 margaritas during 
happy hour (4:00 – 6:00 pm, Tuesday to Friday). 

Elixr Coffee: My favorite coffee in Philadelphia came from this 
spot, tucked away in an alley a couple of blocks from 
Rittenhouse Square. They’re one of the OG coffee roasters in 
the city, operating since 2010 before the specialty coffee 
wave really hit its stride in the United States. They’re all 
about the light roasts, which bring out the brighter flavors in
 the coffees they release, which aligns perfectly with my 
 preferences. They have pour over options, different 
 espresso-based drinks, cold brew, and some fun specialty 
 seasonal drinks. 

 Ultimo Coffee: Another great coffee roaster near the park, 
 this time a block west of Rittenhouse Square. Their chai is 
 fantastic.

The Rodin Museum: The Rodin Museum in Paris is probably our 
favorite museum in the city, which is packed full of way too 
many amazing museums to try to fit into a couple of days of 
visiting. This one is similar – it follows the life and work 
of Auguste Rodin, the French sculptor who is most famous for 
the Thinker, but was a pioneer in exploring the curves and 
contours of the human body through his sculptures. I was 
confused as to how they have a copy of the Thinker and Gates 
of Hell too, which we saw in Paris, but apparently there are 
multiple versions out there, including the ones here.

The Best Places to Stay near Rittenhouse Square 

Here are three of the best places to stay in Philadelphia near 
Rittenhouse Square, including a nice apartment hotel and two 
solid mid range hotels. 

Roost Rittenhouse Square: A Cross Between A Boutique Hotel & 
Apartments. I had a room booked at Roost Rittenhouse Square, 
but ultimately decided that I cared more about being close to 
the stuff in Old City, so I decided to cancel my stay and stay
 at Lokal Old City instead. Roost is a great concept that 
 combines the benefits of staying in a boutique hotel – a 
 concierge who can help you plan your trip, high end bath 
 products, comfy beds – and the comfort of staying in an 
 apartment – like a full kitchen and more space to spread out. 
 We’ve stayed at multiple places like this over the past couple 
 of years in London, Madrid, NYC, and Paris, and one thing 
 we’ll say is that it’s important to have a 24/7 front desk in 
 case anything comes up. This place has that! The apartments 
 themselves are very, very spacious (especially for the price). 
 Like we touched on above, they all have full kitchens with 
 nice appliances and all the cookware you’ll need, and each 
 unit has a full washer and dryer (though, they note, no 
 detergent). They come in a couple of different layouts to 
 accommodate different group sizes – studio, one bedroom, and
two bedroom. 

The studio apartments, which clock in at more than 500 square 
feet (which is HUGE), are plenty of space for solo travelers 
and couples, while the one and two bedroom apartments have 
more space for groups. The beds are consistently rated as 
super comfortable (9.0+ rating from people who have stayed 
there), bath products are from Davines MOMO, coffee is from 
local La Colombe, and you’ll have a 4k TV with Apple TV that
 can be used to stream to your heart’s content. The building is 
 two blocks north of Rittenhouse Square, which is a nice 
 location because all the bars and restaurants around 
 Rittenhouse are within walking distance, and so are the 
 museums that are up to the north. It’s a 15 minute walk from 
 Roost Rittenhouse to the Rodin Museum, for example, and about 
 five minutes more to the Philadelphia Museum of Art (and the 
 Rocky Statue). If they don’t have availability for your dates, 
 they have another location that is very similar in terms of 
 price, amenities, style, and location called Roost Midtown. 
 It’s a few blocks east, which is a less charming location, 
 but still close enough to the square and all the stuff nearby. 

Hyatt Centric Center City: Affordable Option In A Great 
Location. This place is NICE for a Hyatt. I’m not sure why I 
have the idea that Hyatt hotels aren’t all that cool or 
unique in my head, but the pictures of this stylish and 
affordable hotel blew away my expectations. 

Then, I did more research, and the “Hyatt Centric” brand is 
their version of a hip, boutique hotel, which makes total sense. 
The rooms at this affordable hotel are both huge and stylish
 (the standard King room is 300 square feet, which is massive 
 by modern hotel standards), with lots of natural light and 
 light wood tones throughout, and guests who have stayed there
  have rated the beds as a 9.2 in terms of how comfortable they
   are at the time of writing. Some rooms have city views, 
   though it’ll cost you a little extra to reserve those. The 
   location of the hotel is great too – it’s a block and a half 
   east of Rittenhouse Square, and a block and a half west of 
   Elixr Coffee, the best coffee shop in Philadelphia in my 
   humble opinion. When it comes to amenities, it’s fairly 
   basic in terms of what you’re going to get. They have a 
   fitness center, meeting rooms, and an onsite bar and 
   restaurant. Pets are allowed – dogs under 50 lbs 
   (or multiple dogs under 75 lbs total) – though there’s a 
   $100 fee for stays of one to six nights…which is honestly 
   probably far less than you’d pay to have a dog sitter for 
   two to three nights. For the price, this is an excellent 
   option right near Rittenhouse Square, which is one of our 
   favorite parts of downtown Philadelphia.  Important note: 
   They have an extra 0.75% resort fee that you’ll need to pay 
   on arrival. We HATE these silly fees – they should absolutely 
   be built into the cost of the room – but figured we’d call 
   it out so you’re not blindsided when you show up!

Motto By Hilton Rittenhouse Square: A Stylish Mid Range Hotel Two Blocks From The Park

Similar to the “Hyatt Centric” brand, the Motto by Hilton 
brand is all about bringing a younger, hipper energy to Hilton 
hotels. That means smaller rooms with lots of techy amenities
 (connected TVs, the ability to control room temperature and 
 lighting through an app, etc.), and local art, hip bars and 
 restaurants, and more. One of the things that made me include 
 this hotel is their innovative room layouts. While they 
 definitely have the usual room styles, their double rooms – 
 rooms with two beds – feature twin bunk beds, which is a 
 more efficient use of space. It’s definitely not for all 
 travelers, but if you’re a small group on a budget, 
 I think it’s a cool idea.  They also have bunk beds with a 
 double on the bottom and a twin on top, which would be 
 perfect for families with kids. They also have bigger 
 “studios” with more space (300+ square feet) that can 
 comfortably sleep three to four people. 

They have a rooftop taqueria – two words I didn’t think 
I needed to see together until…now – called El Techo 
(which seems like a lovely place for a margarita with a 
skyline view) and a couple of other onsite Mexican-inspired 
restaurants and cafes. 

Parking here will cost you $35 a night (valet), with 
unlimited in/out privileges in a secure covered garage, 
which makes this a solid option if you have a car.

There’s also a fitness center with weights and a Peloton 
bike, if you’re trying to get in a workout during your trip. 

No pets allowed here. The rooms are small, but the tech-enabled 
rooms are well-thought out, and if you’ve got a short trip, 
small rooms won’t be too much of an issue because you’ll be 
out and about exploring anyway. 

Old City: Historic and Charming
Old City is both a neighborhood, and the location of the 
original settlement of Philadelphia. Perched on the western 
bank of the Delaware River across from the New Jersey border, 
Old City is where the vast majority of history related to the 
American Revolution lives today.
Since then, the city expanded west, swallowing the entirety of 
the land between the Delaware and the Schuylkill Rivers. Old 
City is tourist central in Philadelphia, but that doesn’t 
automatically make it a bad place to stay. In fact, I stayed 
here, and would do it again if given the chance (though 
I’d probably opt for Rittenhouse Square, to be honest, for 
its proximity to the coffee shops and restaurants I liked).  
Its charming, tree-lined streets, and quintessential red brick 
buildings make it a very pleasant place to stay, and you’ll 
find yourself within a couple of blocks of some of the most 
important places in early American history. 

The biggest downside is that it’s not particularly interesting 
in terms of food and drinks (though that’s a generalization, 
and doesn’t mean that there are ZERO good places to eat or 
drink).
However, it’s an easy walk or bus ride down to South Philly or
 up to Fishtown, where you’ll find more interesting food options. 
Pros and Cons of Staying in Old City
Pros of staying in Old City
It’s charming. Red brick buildings. Cobblestone streets. 
Independence Hall. This is the oldest part of the city, and it
shows. It has been revitalized in the past few decades, when 
local artists moved into the dilapidated formerly industrial 
area, bringing a variety of businesses along with them to 
support the growing artist community. Revolutionary history is 
on your doorstep. As Hamilton would say – at least Lin Manuel 
Miranda’s iteration – if you want to be in the room where it 
happened, this is it. If you stay here, you’ll be within a few 
blocks of where the Continental Congress signed the Declaration 
of Independence, the original building where Congress met in 
the early days of the republic, and Ben Franklin’s mansion and 
final resting place.
Cons of staying in Old City
It’s far from the western end of the city. Places like 
Rittenhouse Square, the Rocky Statue, and the art museums 
near the Schuylkill River will be a little bit of a trek, 
and likely require some form of public transportation or 
rideshare to get to. However, keep in mind that unless you 
stay in the Center City (which we’ll talk about below), 
you’re going to have the opposite issue if you stay on the 
other end of the city. There’s not a whole lot of places to 
eat and drink. This is a generalization, sure, but for the 
most part, the dining scene in Philadelphia happens to the 
south and west of Old City. A good rule of thumb when 
traveling is that eating within a couple of blocks of a 
major tourist attraction is a bad idea. With a few exceptions, 
that holds true here. 
Old City Highlights
Here are a few places in Old City that I enjoyed, and 
think you might too. The Museum of the American Revolution: 
I loved this museum. I didn’t get a chance to go inside the 
replica of General Washington’s tent because there were, 
quite literally, 300 school kids who were waiting in line,
and the employee warned me that it might be a little hectic. 
I decided to pass. But the rest of the museum is amazing, 
starting with a quick video about the revolution, which it
 argues is an idea rather than a historical event. Then they 
 take you through the history, bit by bit, with a bunch of 
 personal anecdotes from primary sources, like privates in
  both armies, who give you an idea of what it was really like. 
  It’s an excellent museum, and is probably a must-visit in 
  Philly If you’re into Revolutionary history. 


Independence Hall & Plaza: This is lumping together a 
few different sights, the most famous of which is the 
Liberty Bell, which is honestly a little disappointing 
(and, objectively, not a very good bell since it had to be 
 recast twice AND still cracked again). But that’s almost a
  better symbol of the American project – the promise of the 
  Declaration of Independence that cracked when the time came 
  to actually govern. The main attraction is Independence 
  Hall, which you can only enter by booking a tour in advance. 

Menagerie Coffee: The best coffee in the neighborhood, 
I went to this place a couple of times, including on my 
first morning in Philadelphia. They use Dogwood Coffee 
(from Minneapolis) and Elixr (from Philadelphia) and make 
some great coffee. The interior of this place is also way 
bigger than it appears from the outside, with plenty of room 
for getting some work done or reading a book in a quiet corner. 

Shopping on 3rd Ave N: My hotel was on 3rd Ave, so I spent a 
good deal of time walking up and down the street enroute to 
various stops on my Philadelphia itinerary. I was constantly 
surprised at the great boutiques lining the street. There was 
a cocktail / mixology shop – Art in the Age – right outside 
my front door, and a cool design shop with a focus on Japanese
 goods down the street (Omoi). If you’re looking for some
  unique shopping, head here.

The Best Places to Stay in Old City

Here are a couple of places to stay in Old City, including 
where I stayed for my trip to Philadelphia. Lokal Hotel Old 
City: Gorgeous Apartments (Where I Stayed). I stayed at this 
relatively new mini apartment-hotel for my stay in 
Philadelphia, and while it was a little bit of a splurge, 
I think it was worth every penny for what I needed from it.
I was in Philadelphia for a few days on my own, and I was 
planning on getting some work done from the apartment, and 
cooking for myself a little bit. What drew me in was their 
philosophy and story, which resonated with me, a traveler 
who tries to make it to every single farmers market, coffee 
shop, and offbeat neighborhood in whatever city I’m visiting. 
Keeping that in mind, this is Lokal’s thesis: “We like design, 
feeling at home and doing what the locals do when we travel. 
We like a bit of space to stretch our legs, to whip up a quick 
meal and mix a quality cocktail. We also like good coffee and 
nice towels, sheets and always a great robe.”

I mean, how could I say no?

The building itself is in the heart of Old City, roughly three 
or four blocks from Independence Hall, and it’s small – just 
six apartments. The apartments are very spacious, and they 
range from studios to two bedrooms.They’re all named after 
famous names in Philadelphia’s history – I stayed in “Ben”, 
named after Ben Franklin.

Inside the room, you’ll find a remarkable combination of 
comforts. The bed is easily in the top three most comfortable 
beds I’ve ever slept in (outside of my own) thanks to a Casper 
mattress and Parachute sheets.
Rooms are spacious – my studio was 450 square feet, which is 
pretty huge compared to your average hotel room – and are 
equipped with Apple TV to stream your heart out 
(either watching Apple TV+ or using AirPlay from your devices). 

And, of course, the coffee. They have packets of coffee 
that you can brew either using the coffee machine, or the 
Chemex that they provide (with filters). The tea selection 
was also nice to have – I enjoyed a nice cup of honey ginger 
tea every evening before bed. The best part, at least for me, 
was the kitchen. An induction cooktop, all the pots, pans, 
and cooking utensils you could possibly need, PLUS a whole 
cabinet full of spices. 

If you’re looking to live like a local for a few nights, 
this would be a great place to stay in Philadelphia. 
Kimpton Monaco: Nice Hotel Across The Street From Independence Hall

The number one selling point of the Kimpton Hotel 
Monaco is the fact that it is literally across the street 
from Independence Hall, so you’re right in the middle of all 
the action. At least in terms of the Revolutionary History 
side of Philadelphia. 

Kimpton hotels are generally very nice, and this one is no 
different. Blue tones dominate the rooms, and they have a 
couple of different layout options, depending on how you’d 
like to travel.

Basic rooms are 215 square feet – about average – with double 
beds, and bigger rooms with multiple queen beds are also 
available for a slight upcharge. If you stay here, you’ll have 
access to their PUBLIC bikes to cruise around town, and a nice 
fitness center. However, here’s one thing we HATE. The WiFi 
isn’t free unless you’re an IHG One Rewards Member. Did we 
just transport back in time to 1999? How is free WiFi not a 
must-have for any modern, self respecting hotel? Anyway, the 
summary here is that it’s a great location, the rooms are 
comfortable, and you’ll have to fork over a few bucks for 
WiFi if you need it. 

Center City: Budget-Friendly and Central, but Relatively Boring
Center City is on this list because it’s smack dab in the 
middle of it all. West is Rittenhouse Square, north is the 
museums, east is Old City, and south is South Street and all 
the bars and restaurants along that stretch. 

However, I will say that Center City itself isn’t really 
anything special. Sure, it has Reading Terminal Market and 
Philadelphia City Hall, but other than that, I’m not sure 
why you’d find yourself here other than walking through it 
to get somewhere else. 

For the purposes of this guide, when I say “Center City,”
 I’m talking about the area sandwiched between Old City and 
 S Broad Street. It’s southeast of City Hall and east of S 
 Broad Street, and south of Reading Terminal Market. To the 
 west is Old City and Washington Square. 

The selling points are the central location, and the fact
 that there are a lot of places to stay, which means 
 relatively affordable prices. Pros and Cons of Staying in 
 Center City. Pros of staying in Center City. It’s central. 
 Go figure, the Center City is central. Thanks, Matt, super 
 helpful advice! But I’m serious – the biggest advantage of
  staying here is that you’re going to be conveniently 
  located between Old City and Rittenhouse Square / museums. 

Reading Terminal Market. Though I think it’s a little hit 
and miss in terms of individual stands within the market, 
it’s undeniable that this indoor food hall is a must-see in 
Philly, and it’ll be right on your doorstep. 

Lots of choices. There’s a lot of hotels in this part of the 
city, from basic chain hotels like the Holiday Inn, to more upscale options. 

It’s affordable. The combination of the fact that there are a 
lot of hotels to choose from and the fact that it’s sandwiched 
between two of the more desirable areas in the city means that
 this is actually a fairly affordable area to call home for a 
 few days. 


Cons of staying in Center City. It’s relatively uninteresting. 
I walked from my hotel in Old City over to Rittenhouse Square 
and back multiple times over the course of my time in 
Philadelphia, which means I walked right through this area a bunch. I took the northern path, skirting the northern end of City Hall. I did the same thing on the southern side. Not once did I find any part of this area that made me say “now this is interesting.” If you stay here, plan on spending most of your time elsewhere. 
CLICK HERE TO FIND THE PERFECT PLACE TO STAY IN CENTER 
CITYCenter City Highlights


Reading Terminal Market: This is an indoor food hall with a 
huge collection of vendors, most selling ready-to-eat food, 
with a few places selling packaged food, produce, meats, and 
cheeses sprinkled in. I’m a big, big fan of Fox and Son and 
their delicious corn dogs and funnel cakes (which also happen 
to be gluten free). This is a great spot for lunch, especially
 with a group where people want to try different spots (and,
  ideally, you all share between you!). 

Cogito Coffee: How did a Croatian coffee brand end up in 
Philadelphia? I had the same question. They have locations 
over in Croatia, and then one in Philly because the guy who 
opened the Philadelphia location – who has Croatian heritage – 
decided it would be cool to bring it to Philadelphia. 



A corn dog from Fox & Son at Reading Terminal Market
The Best Places to Stay in Center City

Here are three places to consider if you want to stay in 
Center City.
Budget Option: Alexander Inn

Nice Apartments: Roost East Market

Hip Mid Range Hotel: Canopy by Hilton
If you thought this guide was helpful, you’ll probably enjoy 
our other Philadelphia guides too! We’ve got a guide to 
planning a perfect weekend trip to Philadelphia, and a guide 
to eating gluten free in Philadelphia, featuring donuts,
churros, and corn dogs!




















