Ben Franklin is Everywhere in Philadelphia: Statues, 
Monuments, and Historic Sites

When the founding fathers drafted the Constitution at 
Independence Hall, I wonder if they could have envisioned 
folks someday riding past that building in a public bus 
while updating their Facebook status.

Probably not. But that’s the cool thing about Philadelphia. 
History surrounds you everywhere you go, even when you’re 
just taking public transit from Point A to Point B.

The contrast of the old and new is amazing to witness. 
Kids playing football in an open field right next to the 
Liberty Bell. A small shop selling frozen yogurt on the same 
street where Ben Franklin used to work. Bicyclists zooming 
past the original U.S. Supreme Court.

The funniest thing about history in Philadelphia is the 
city’s Ben Franklin fetish. Seriously, the guy’s name and 
image are everywhere, from museums to storefronts.

Even the Museum of Art can’t resist paying homage to the man.
 This marble bust is impressive. It was created in 1779 and 
 Franklin got to see it while he was still alive.

Not that he doesn’t deserve it. “The First American,” the 
first to understand electricity, and all that.

This Ben Franklin statue is located at Weightman Hall on 33rd 
Street. It’s called “Young Benjamin Franklin” and it depicts 
him as he arrived in the city at age 17, with no job and no 
money. It was sculpted in 1904 by Robert Tait McKenzie.

Other Ben Franklin Philly statues you may want to find 
include: -The statue in front of College Hall, created back 
in 1889 from bronze, with a granite base -“Ben on the Bench” 
sculpture on Locust Walk at 37th Street. You can sit right 
next to Ben and take a selfie! -Statue of Ben inside the
 National Constitution Center, along with life-size statues 
 of every man who signed the document. The Ben Franklin 
 Influence in Philadelphia More evidence of Philadelphia’s 
 Ben Franklin obsession, from parkways to town squares to 
 city buildings.

The Ben Franklin Influence in Philadelphia
More evidence of Philadelphia’s Ben Franklin obsession, 
from parkways to town squares to city buildings
Oh, and that bridge leading across the river to New Jersey?
 That would be the Benjamin Franklin Bridge, of course.

Historic markers are everywhere in Philly, especially in the 
Old City neighborhood.Some of them really do mark important 
places in history, such as the former spot where slaves 
arrived and a groundbreaking gay rights demonstration.

Other markers, though, are really silly. There’s one that 
marks the spot of birth for Lorenzo Langstroth, who 
“revolutionized the beekeeping industry with his 1852 
patented moveable frame hive…” Seriously? Honeybees?

Liberty Bell and Independence Hall

For more of a history lesson, you’ll want to go inside the 
famous attractions, most of which are free and run by the 
National Park Service.
There’s no need for elaborate displays or other bells and 
whistles when you have the original Bell and its famous 
crack right there in plain view.

Some of us growing up only got to take mediocre field trips 
to local radio stations and to the zoo. How lucky these kids 
are getting to take a field trip to see a real piece of history!

There was even a guy dressed in colonial garb leading Liberty 
Bell tours. I assume he was supposed to be Ben Franklin, 
brought back to life!

Nearby is Independence Hall, where both the Declaration of 
Independence and the Constitution were drafted and signed. 
That’s some serious history. You can tour the inside of the 
building and see the Assembly Room, where the founding fathers 
worked.Independence Hall is one of the best Ben Franklin sites in 
Philadelphia for history. Many of the artifacts in the room are 
replicas but not originals. They are restored items designed to 
make the room look as it did in the 1700s.

Some of the pieces are originals, though, including a chair 
used by George Washington and some guy named Ben. That’s the 
one, right there in the back! nside, the park rangers will answer all of 
your questions. Here, a ranger speaks inside the Supreme Court chamber, 
where the Court worked into the 1790s.

There’s a George Washington statue in Philly too. He stands guard 
outside Independence Hall. Head on down to Old City Hall to see another 
spot where the Supreme Court worked. This one only takes a couple of minutes to 
visit.
Step inside and see the benches where Supreme Court justices 
sat and where observers watched.
Then there’s Carpenters Hall, where the First Continental Congress met.
Among their accomplishments was an agreement to boycott British goods following 
the British government’s angry response to the Boston Tea Party.

Ben Franklin Philadelphia Statue at the National Constitution Center
For still more history, you can try the National Constitution Center, an 
entire museum dedicated to the history of that document.Take a guess who’s front and 
center among the statues? It’s our dear friend Ben.Find one of the best Ben 
Franklin Philadelphia statues at the Constitution Center.

Being surrounded by so much history is a cool feeling. Make some 
time for these tourist sites when you visit the City of 
Brotherly Love.

You may think that Washington DC has all the historic 
monuments and statues, but Philly surely gives them a run for 
their money!










