It's the People Who Make Philadelphia's Best Restaurants Worth Traveling For
You could call it the perfect Philly afternoon. The weather 
at Franklin Delano Roosevelt Park one Saturday last spring 
was damp, drizzly, and gray, but no one at the Southeast 
Asian Market cared. There was too much fresh-pressed 
sugarcane juice, papaya salad, charcoal-grilled chicken 
hearts on a stick, crab fried rice, shave ice in countless 
flavors, and noodles upon noodles to be bothered by a little 
rain. Assorted languages flowed as groups of senior citizens 
and families with infants milled about the vendors. A 
quintuplet of teenage girls in black, white, and gray 
'90s-era hip-hop-meets-grunge outfits performed a 
choreographed dance to K-pop with age-appropriate enthusiasm 
on a covered stage. A vendor waited attentively as an elderly 
auntie adjusted her order from 15 to 17 to no, wait—she 
turned to consult with her friend and count heads—21 lumpia.
At the SEA Market, nationally renowned for its robust and 
accessible food culture, you shop by sight and scent; most
 visitors don't bother to find a picnic table lest they 
 overlook the next delight. The venerable market, like the 
 rest of Philadelphia's current food scene, is the outcome of 
 decades of community building and a growing appreciation for 
 the city's indie spirit. For curious travelers seeking to 
 understand a city's story, the way it feeds itself—from what 
 goes on the plate to cultural nourishment in all its 
 forms—is a reliable place to start. In many ways Philly is 
 at a crossroads. Philadelphians, like the rest of America, 
 are confronting complex problems, and food is increasingly a 
 platform for helping people made vulnerable by systemic 
 issues rooted in racism and poverty. It is in part because 
 of these challenges that Philly today is such a pleasurable 
 and dynamic place to visit. Philadelphians in hospitality 
 and the arts have mastered the ability to create spaces for 
 everyone else.
 This is especially true when it comes to food. The past few 
 decades have seen a shift in emphasis toward local talents 
 who better reflect the people who actually live here. “Back 
 in the old days, the attention was mostly for the big 
 hospitality groups,” says Chutatip “Nok” Suntaranon, the 
 chef and owner of the beloved (and award-winning) Thai 
 restaurant Kalaya. “But now people are more excited about 
 smaller chefs.”
 Suntaranon opened her restaurant, then a cozy 32-seat BYOB 
 space in the historic neighborhood of Bella Vista, in 2019,
  presenting dishes inspired by her family and royal Thai 
 cuisine. In 2022 she moved to a much larger location in 
 trendy Fishtown that seats more than 200, expanding the menu 
 and launching a sharp cocktail list. Her growth is a 
 reflection of the audience she cultivated, provoking diners 
 one meal at a time to consider her culture beyond the usual 
 takeout-menu staples. Past the elegant, tropical-inspired 
 dining room suffused with natural light, the open kitchen 
 turns out enormous tom yum soups with massive dangling 
 prawns, dumplings so detailed and precise in their mimicry 
 of florets and baby birds that the uninitiated may hesitate 
 to eat them, and sensational curries that master depth, 
 brightness, flavorful spice, and slow-building heat.
 In South Philadelphia is the Bok Building, a repurposed high
  school that's home to artists, nonprofits, and businesses, 
  including Emily Riddell's celebrated bakery Machine Shop, 
  where lines queue daily for treats like festive strawberry 
  tarts and rhubarb galettes. Her interpretations of 
  French-inspired pastry and viennoiserie have become 
  legendary, as has her extraordinary bread making. She 
  credits social media—its capacity for reaching new 
  audiences and for authentic storytelling—with helping her 
  make the shift from selling her products to building a 
  passionate customer base that enthusiastically spreads the 
  word of her food. “Fifteen years ago I could've never 
  imagined launching a business without needing to ask people 
  to come and find me,” she says.
  This work frequently takes place beyond the confines of 
  restaurants. The Fitler Club in Center City is a bespoke 
  members social club and wellness hub that includes 
  excellent gym facilities, coworking spaces, places to eat, 
  and a 14-room hotel. Its design is curated with soft 
  neutrals and black accents, intimate lighting, stunning 
  plant and floral arrangements, and plush furniture that 
  begs for lounging and long conversations. Beyond its 
  aesthetics, says Kimberly McGlonn, the club's VP of social
  impact, the Fitler is a space that nurtures community by 
  fostering connections among members, who include creatives, 
  artists, nonprofit leaders, politicos, heads of industry, 
  and activists. Some of this work takes place through 
  formal, organized events, but much happens simply by 
  assembling the right group of people and giving them a 
  place where they can gather on their own.
  “Spaces like this allow people to have a reprieve,” McGlonn 
  explains. “To pause, to sit still. Often I think, How can 
  we use design to create moments of tenderness and 
  spaciousness, so we can increase our capacity to take care 
  of ourselves? By default, that ripples out to take care of 
  other people.”
Across town in the Passyunk neighborhood, Yowie is a boutique 
hotel and lifestyle shop founded in 2016 by designer Shannon 
Maldonado as a way to amplify and celebrate artists and give 
opportunity to underrepresented voices. The shop and hotel 
feature exciting small-run, curated offerings from functional
 makers, designers, and artists, while also hosting events, 
 from workshops to collection launches. “When we first got 
 here, people were confused as to what we were doing,” she 
 says. “But now there are more spaces—more stores, art 
 galleries, and experimental programming. People look at us 
 as a springboard for local talent, and they come here to 
 specifically experience what we're doing.”
 
It cannot be overstated: Philadelphia is a gorgeous city. 
Even Philly experts can stumble on something surprising and 
new with each visit, from the charming stone-laid streets in 
Old City and the views of the Delaware River while on the 
many walkable bridges, to the more than 4,000 (and counting)
 public murals and the brick row houses that curve around 
 Passyunk. And every day countless unnamed people contribute 
 in small ways to the beauty of this town. When something in 
 Philadelphia is rooted in joy and respect, everyone wants 
 you to know about it. Everyone wants you to go there. In 
 fact, they'll probably take you themselves.

In West Philly, Honeysuckle Provisions is an Afrocentric 
grocer and takeout spot by day, with a remarkable tasting 
menu on most nights. Chef-owners Cybille St. Aude-Tate and 
her husband, Omar Tate, weave an anti-colonial narrative of 
African diaspora foodways, reimagining Haitian folklore (St.
 Aude-Tate's heritage) through dishes that are as evocative 
 as they are delicious. The madan sara is an Akra fritter, 
 which is made of malanga and paired with epis aioli and 
 pikliz, staples of the Haitian pantry. The server explains
  the importance of cash food markets in Haiti's economy. It 
  is soon followed by a chestnut pasta, called $payforhaiti, 
  inspired by a song of the same name (featured on one of the 
  shop's playlists) by the producers Kaytranada and 
  Mach-Hommy, both of whom are of Haitian descent. The 
  experience reflects the reparations the first Black 
  republic in the West was forced to pay to France after the 
  Haitian Revolution in exchange for independence, which 
  burdened subsequent generations with incomprehensible 
  amounts of debt. Guests swoon over the food but often 
  abandon small talk to reflect on their blind spots and new 
  opportunities for learning.

A poster near the door reads “No stadium casino arena in 
Chinatown” in large block print. It's another iteration of 
intercommunal support in the Philly food world, addressing a 
question of what matters to whom. Proponents claim that a new 
basketball stadium for the 76ers would reinvigorate the local 
economy. Critics cite the inevitable displacement of popular 
and beloved neighborhood businesses where both locals and 
tourists flock to seek out decadent egg tarts, dim sum, 
healing, and cultural programming.

If history is any indication, the victories people want to 
talk about within Philadelphia, and the stories people 
outside the city want to share, are the ones that highlight 
the tiny, mighty trailblazers. It is the indie differences, 
not the generic and the commercial, that define this place. 
Just before schooling her team on how to prepare her crab 
curry recipe, Suntaranon expresses it to me this way: “The 
stories that come to us here, they are reflective of the 
appreciation people have for us. In Philly we do things 
differently.”

Where to eat
Husband-and-wife team Chad and Hanna Williams have cultivated 
an approachable space serving a seasonal New American tasting
 menu with dishes like braised veal cheek that will leave you 
 wanting nothing at Friday Saturday Sunday. American bistro 
 and adjacent bar a.kitchen and a.bar are inside AKA 
 Rittenhouse Square and have been quietly impressing for more
  than a decade. The staff is warm and passionate about chef 
  Eli Collins's cooking—try the airy chickpea panisse and 
  grilled half chicken with carrot jus. In addition to 
  offering classics like sushi rolls and chirashi, at Royal 
  Sushi & Izakaya, chef Jesse Ito serves up playful dishes 
  like a house-made bucatini with uni cream and purple chunks
   of tuna with wasabi and guacamole, as well as a 17-course 
   omakase. From Connecticut-raised chef Amanda Shulman and 
   her Quebecois fiancé, Alex Kemp, comes bistro My Loup, 
   specializing in twists on French classics. The 
   always-changing menu prioritizes the fresh and seasonal, 
   which could mean grilled scallops with brown butter one 
   day and roasted bone marrow with fava beans the next.
   
Veteran baker Juan Carlos Aparicio spent two decades cutting 
his teeth in other Philly restaurants—and making their bread 
programs famous. Now he has his own spot, El Chingon, where 
he serves tacos in sourdough tortillas and giant cemitas, or 
Pueblan sandwiches, overflowing with ingredients like a 
traditional cheese dip known as choriqueso. The Bok 
Building's eighth floor houses Michael Ferreri's invigorating 
interpretation of modern Sicilian food, Irwin's Upstairs. 
Come for serious, friendly dishes like fried swordfish glazed 
in a sweet-and-sour agrodolce sauce and garnished with 
pickled kohlrabi. Also in the Bok Building, artisanal bakery
 Second Daughter Baking Company by sisters Mercedes Brooks 
 and Rhonda Saltzman offers ornate cakes and cupcakes 
 decorated with local edible flowers. You can't go wrong 
 here, but the giant fudge brownie is a particular winner.

 Family-owned Ethiopian restaurant Abyssinia, on an 
 unassuming West Philly corner, serves excellent stews and 
 spongy breads. Its two bars—one upstairs, one downstairs—are
  lively destinations unto themselves, with the full food 
  menu and an extensive cocktail list. Popular urban winery 
  Mural City Cellars drops a few varietals a year made from 
  grapes sourced within a 300-mile radius of Philly, which 
  pair nicely with the low-key surroundings and spare snack 
  menu. With a new, expanded location in Fishtown, Kalaya 
  burns brighter than ever with eye-popping seafood like 
  goong phao (river prawn the size of a lobster), among other 
  Thai delicacies. Emily Riddell's cheerful bakery, Machine 
  Shop, turns out excellent bread and seasonal treats, like 
  berry tarts in summer and a grapefruit-poppy-seed 
  concoction in winter.
  
Where to stay
The design shop on the ground floor of Shannon Maldonado's 
boutique hotel serves as a preview of coming attractions.
 Inside Yowie, 13 rooms are Normann Copenhagen chairs, 
 ceramics by brands like Studio Arhoj, and more objets from 
 noted and emerging designers, with a priority on 
 underrepresented makers; much is available for purchase. At 
 Four Seasons Hotel Philadelphia at Comcast Center, the guest 
 rooms, which begin on the 45th floor, all have 
 floor-to-ceiling views of the city. The attentive service 
 throughout is just as satisfying. Even if you're not 
 staying, take the glass elevator to the 60th floor for 
 SkyHigh, a bar featuring Asian- and French-inspired bites 
 from chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten, along with more 
 panoramic perspectives.

 Beloved as a late-night destination, W Philadelphia is a 
 playful property that sets the mood with its bright palette,
  inventive lighting, and all-around joie de vivre. Live 
  performers (R&B acts, DJs) often coax guests and locals 
  from the poolside cabanas, while additional music sets in
   the Living Room lounge downstairs offer further 
   opportunities to mix and mingle. For its tony historic 
   vibe, primo location on the city's landmark public square, 
   and superlative service, The Rittenhouse is a perennial 
   favorite that has long drawn discerning visitors seeking 
   reliable luxury. The Mary Cassatt Tea Room serves an 
   agreeable afternoon spread of sweets, savories, and 
   scones. Four-key Hotel at Wm. Mulherin's Sons above an 
   adored Italian restaurant of the same name succeeds wildly 
   at making guests feel like locals. Each suite has a full 
   kitchen, a console stereo system, and myriad other 
   accoutrements that will make you feel like you live there.
    The unbeatable Fishtown location doesn't hurt, either.
    


