THE BY-THE-BOOK PHILADELPHIA ITINERARY
This three-day By-the-Book itinerary is packed with tried-and-true 
Philadelphia adventures, essential for any first-time visitor
(or anyone’s first visit in a while). Delve into 
Philadelphia’s history and pivotal role in the founding of 
the nation, be awed by art collections, enjoy the great 
outdoors, and taste the wide variety of culinary offerings 
that have made Philadelphia an international food destination.
DAY 1
Morning
An essential starting point for any Philadelphia visit, 
the Independence Visitor Center along Independence Mall is 
where you can obtain tickets for local attractions and map 
out your journey with trip-planning help in 12 languages and 
an interactive, digital Welcome Wall.
TIP: Take a trip to the Visitor Center’s second floor to 
enjoy sweeping views of Independence Mall from the Liberty 
View Terrace.
Visit Independence Hall and take a $1 ticketed tour of this 
UNESCO World Heritage Site where America’s Founders signed 
the Declaration of Independence. Just across the street is 
where you’ll find the Liberty Bell. The symbol of American 
Independence is free to see (and snap a selfie with), as are
the accompanying exhibits inside the Liberty Bell Center.

Afternoon
For lunch, visit Reading Terminal Market to shop and eat 
your way through 80+ vendors. The market is one of America’s 
oldest and largest indoor farmer’s markets. Satisfy your 
appetite for shopping with a visit to Macy’s. Shop for 
tax-free clothes and shoes at a true American department 
store, which is also home to the world’s largest playable 
instrument and a can’t-miss holiday light show.

Just a short walk away, take a photo of the architectural 
treasure that is City Hall. Then head to Dilworth Park for 
seasonal activities, food, and plenty of space to relax. 
Another photo op is just a few steps away at LOVE Park. 
Strike a pose in front of Robert Indiana’s iconic sculpture 
at the gateway to the Benjamin Franklin Parkway and 
Philadelphia’s Parkway Museums District.

On the northern end of Independence Mall, the National 
Constitution Center is the only museum in the nation devoted 
to the U.S. Constitution, located just two blocks from where 
it was signed.

Evening
Cheers to your first full day in Philadelphia at the city’s 
oldest continuously operating tavern, McGillin’s Olde Ale 
House. The pub has been pouring pints since 1860 and features
vintage signs from Philadelphia’s past hung throughout the 
space.

DAY 2
Morning
Start the day by taking in historic city sights from a comfy 
seat on a double-decker bus, with tours available in multiple 
languages. Hop off the bus and explore the 9th Street Italian Market. Here you can retrace Rocky’s famous jog through a 
centuries-old open-air market filled with cuisine from many 
different cultures.

Follow the Italian Market south to refuel with a cheesesteak 
from Pat’s or Geno’s. Philadelphia’s two most famous 
cheesesteaks are cooked right across the street from one 
another. They are easily identified by neon lights and the 
unmistakable aroma of cheese and onions. Order a sandwich 
from each and debate amongst your family and friends whose 
was better.

Afternoon
Return to Old City to relive the story of the American 
Revolution and the early days of the United States at the 
Museum of the American Revolution. Then take a short walk 
back to Independence Mall and explore the groundwork of the 
President’s House Historic Site. Once home to Presidents 
George Washington and John Adams, this site tells the story 
of slavery and freedom in the early days of America.

Stroll down our nation’s oldest continuously inhabited 
residential street, Elfreth’s Alley. There you can admire 32 
18th-century homes that line this cozy block in Old City. 
For a closer look at working-class living in early 
Philadelphia, visit the Elfreth’s Alley Museum at houses 
124 and 126. Afterwards, fill any extra room in your 
suitcase with souvenirs, gifts and tax-free clothes and 
shoes purchased at one of the many independent shops and 
art galleries in Old City.

Evening
Enjoy dinner in the historic district from one of the many 
restaurants that line 2nd Street, such as Royal Boucherie, 
The Plough and the Stars, and Khyber Pass Pub. End the day 
by treating yourself to an old school scoop from a 
turn-of-the-century style ice cream parlor, The Franklin 
Fountain. This ice cream shop sits just a few doors away 
from the nation’s oldest continuously operating candy store, 
Shane Confectionery.

DAY 3
Morning
Start with a morning walk, jog, run or bike ride along the 
20+ mile Schuylkill River Trail, weaving through downtown 
into Fairmount Park. Burn more calories by scaling the 72 
“Rocky Steps” at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Then head 
inside one of the nation’s largest art museums to explore a 
collection that spans 2,000 years.

Back outside, admire one of Philadelphia’s most iconic views:
 Boathouse Row. Find the best vantage point on the western 
 shore of the Schuylkill River, along MLK Jr. Drive. Continue
your adventure into Fairmount Park. Head to one of the many
trailheads in the expansive, 2,000+ acre park for a hike,
 or tour one of the historic mansions scattered throughout.

Afternoon
Visit the castle-like complex that is Eastern State 
Penitentiary. Once inside, navigate the crumbling cellblocks 
and learn more about former inhabitants, including “Slick 
Willie” Sutton and notorious gangster Al Capone. The 
Penitentiary offers a comprehensive audio tour narrated by 
actor Steve Buscemi. After your tour, find a quaint lunch 
stop amidst an international array of flavor in the Fairmount 
neighborhood.

Finally, take a short walk to the Benjamin Franklin Parkway 
to visit the Rodin Museum. There you can revel in one of the 
largest collections of sculptor Auguste Rodin’s works outside
 of Paris, including a six-foot cast of The Thinker.

Evening
End day three with an evening along the Delaware River with 
dinner and drinks aboard the Moshulu. This restaurant is on 
the world’s oldest and largest square rigged sailing vessel 
still afloat.
