The Five Must-Visit Art Museums in Philadelphia

Most of you are aware that the City of Brotherly 
Love is filled with history – the Liberty Bell anyone? –
 as well as fabulous food – hello you yummy Philly 
 cheesesteaks! But did you also know it is filled with 
 world class art? Indeed, it is and we here at Beyond 
 Times Square have chosen five museums in Philadelphia 
 that are great places for you to explore to get your 
 art fix the next time you visit the city. Check them 
 out below to see which pleases your “palette.”

 Philadelphia Museum of Art
Ok I am going to show my age here. Remember those steps that 
fictional boxer Rocky Balboa famously ran up in the major 
motion picture of the same (first) name? Yup – this is that 
museum. But obviously that is not it’s claim to fame. 
What is? The fact that it is one of the largest art museums 
in the United States for one. And that it is also one of the
 most significant thanks to its extensive collection – 
 240,000 pieces of artwork that spread across 2000 years. 
 Ancient world, medieval times, the Renaissance, American,
  East and South Asia, the Impressionist movement and 
  contemporary art are all represented here as well as 
  pieces from three of the most well-known artists in 
  history – Picasso, van Gogh and Renoir. Oh, and the 
  second largest collection of arms and armor in the 
  country calls the Philadelphia Museum of Art its home too.
   With rotating exhibitions, spirited programs and events 
   for the entire family and a one acre outdoor sculpture 
   garden – you’ll want to sprint up those steps just like 
   Rocky!

   Rodin Museum
The second museum on our list comes courtesy of Jules Mastbaum – 
a man once referred to as “the king of cinema.” Jules, a Philly 
native and movie theater magnate, was a collector of pieces
 from French sculptor Auguste Rodin and gifted them all – 
 along with the French gardens he had designed to showcase
  them – to Philadelphia in the 1920’s. Housed both indoors
   as well as outdoors in a formal garden you’ll find over 
   120 of Rodin’s sculptures on display as well as various 
   drawings and paintings. Among the work is perhaps two of
    his most well-known pieces – The Thinker and The Gates 
    of Hell. Fun fact – Philadelphia was the first city in 
    the U.S. to exhibit his art so it’s quite fitting that 
    the largest collection of his works outside of Paris 
    found its home here. The collection is not stagnant 
    either – it actually rotates every two years. Note: 
    This is the only one of the museums in Philadelphia that
     we are featuring that has an everyday “pay what you 
     want” admission model.

     Barnes Foundation
Instituted by another Philadelphia native – Albert C. Barnes – the Barnes 
Foundation was created with the noble goal of teaching all 
classes of citizens how to look at and ultimately appreciate
 art. An avid art collector – Barnes interestingly enough 
 actually halted the work in his factory (he was the co-
 creator of an antiseptic) for two hours each day to hold 
 art appreciation classes and discussions for his workforce
 . As you may have guessed, it is from here that his desire 
 to teach anyone and everyone an understanding of art grew 
 into what is now the Barnes Foundation. What to expect here?
  A fabulous permanent collection of Impressionist and 
  post-Impressionist art which Barnes amassed from 1912 to 
  1951 that includes works from Renoir, Picasso, Matisse, 
  Modigliani, Cezanne and van Gogh as well as Native American
   ceramics, African art, Pennsylvania German furniture and 
   more. In addition, there are also rotating temporary 
   exhibitions throughout the year and, of course, art 
   education classes – both in person and online that also 
   vary with new courses offered every month.

   Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
As both a museum and a private art school – the first and 
the oldest in the United States – the Pennsylvania Academy 
of the Fine Arts is one of the city’s principal art hubs. 
Started in 1805 by the trio of Charles Willson Peale, a 
painter and scientist, William Rush, a sculptor, as well 
as other artists and business leaders – PAFA is housed in 
a historic landmark building that showcases over 16,000 
pieces. In fact, its collection is internationally lauded 
and includes works that span from the 18th- and 19th-century
 masters including Benjamin West, Mary Cassatt and more, to
  contemporary painters such as Kehinde Wiley, Mickalene 
  Thomas and Andy Warhol, among others. In addition to the
   permanent collection, as well as a slew of temporary 
   exhibits, the students of PAFA hold their Annual Student 
   Exhibition – or ASE – every spring in what has become a 
   highly anticipated even in the City of Brotherly Love, 
   as it allows the public to purchase pieces from those who 
   may very well become the next world famous name in the 
   art world.

   Philadelphia’s Magic Gardens
Undoubtedly unlike any museum you have ever frequented –
 Philadelphia’s Magic Gardens was born thanks to the 
 desire of Isaiah Zagar – an award winning mosaic artist – 
 to enhance the appearance of his South Street Neighborhood 
 back in the 1970’s. This indoor / outdoor art gallery is 
 created entirely out of discarded tiles and mirrors as well
  as used bicycle wheels and ceramic dishes that are 
  transformed into stunning mosaics. After Zagar spend 
  decades of creating “walls” of mosaics with his finds –
   bringing a whole new meaning to the phrase “one man’s 
   trash is another man’s treasure” – it faced the very 
   real possibility of being torn down in 2004. Luckily,
    the neighborhood would rally to not only preserve his 
    work – but to transform it into this non-profit venture.
     Besides this completely unique expression of art, 
     PMG also hosts hands on experiences, concerts and more. 
     And – for an in depth private tour of this masterpiece 
     and others throughout the city, your friends at Beyond 
     Times Square offer a Magic Gardens & Murals of 
     Philadelphia Private Walking Tour that also includes 
     admission.

     