MUSEUMS OFF THE BEATEN PATH
FUN WITH PHG
Wagner Free Institute of Science | Cecil B. Moore, 
Philadelphia Many of us passed the Wagner Museum before, 
but never stopped inside to take in all the treasures. 
On a recent field trip, the PHG team was treated to a brief 
lecture on the history of Wagner and the incredible free 
museum he created (worth asking the staff about when visiting). 
One wouldn’t think browsing cases of rocks, shells, and taxidermy 
would be so fascinating, but we had to drag ourselves away and are 
dreaming of our next visit! Check their website and social media for
 events and lectures. 

Stoogeum | Ambler, PA 
As you may have guessed from the name, this museum is 
wall-to-wall Stooges. There are cases upon cases of 
memorabilia, movie posters, history facts, and even a 
Three Stooges pinball. They release limited appointments 
monthly that you can reserve online. While you’re there, 
sign up for their newsletter to stay up to date on the 
happenings and hours. 

The Rosenbach Museum and Library | Fitler Square, Philadelphia
Have a rare book lover in your life? Head to The Rosenbach Museum. 
It was founded by two brothers who were renowned dealers in books, 
manuscripts, and fine arts. Among other good reads, the only surviving 
copy of Benjamin Franklin’s first Poor Richard Almanac resides here. 
Tours are the only way to see the home and the collection up close. 
The gardens have been reopened after 20 years, so be sure to take a stroll 
through as well. 

Simeone Foundation Automotive Museum | Elmwood Park, 
Philadelphia. If watching vintage race cars take a spin in a 
parking lot is up your alley, then head on down to this 
museum that's located right near the Philadelphia Airport. 
You can’t get into or ride the vehicles on display, but you 
can take as many pictures of the shiny, candy-colored autos as 
you’d like! Take a peek at their Demo Day schedule where 
they roll out the race cars and zip them around 
(by professional drivers) so you can “see, hear and smell 
them” in action. 

American Treasure Museum | Oaks, PA 
Also featured in our Beat the Boredom Blues blog, this odd 
collection is worth the drive. Located near the
 Philadelphia Expo Center at Oaks, it’s only open on 
 the weekends. Don your Members Only jacket, hop on the 
 miniature train that tours the facility, and get snapping 
 all things Americana. You’ll see old cars, toys, neon 
 signs, and an entire Christmas room. Play the game of 
 “I used to have one of those” while driving by. 

The Shoe Museum at the Temple University School of 
Podiatric Medicine | Center City, Philadelphia
Next time you're heading to Chinatown for lunch, make 
a reservation to hit up the Shoe Museum at the Temple 
University School of Podiatric Medicine. It's super 
low-key and only takes about 30 mins to cruise the 
collection which lives mostly in the hallway of the 
6th floor. You can spot celebrity sneaks, delicate 
wedding shoes from the late 1800s, and colorful mummers 
kicks. Free, open M-F and you must register for the 
self-guided tour online. 

The Warton Esherick Museum | Malvern, PA 
American artist Wharton Eshericks's home and studio make up 
the campus of this museum. A master of wood (there is so
much pretty, twisted, polished wood), books, art, and 
furniture are all on display. This quote from their 
website gives you a taste of what to expect “He created 
furniture that would pass as sculpture, and sculpture 
that functioned as furniture, bridging the gap between
 art and craft.” You must book a tour in advance as the
  buildings are quite small. Time your visit with one of
   the many events and lectures they host. 

The Penn Treaty Museum | Fishtown, Philadelphia
This is a merger of two museums in one space. 
One dedicated to telling the stories of Penn Treaty 
Park and the Friendship Treaty, all steeped in Native
 American history, and the other showcases artifacts 
 that have been found during the endless digging under
  I-95. Doll heads, glass, and other treasures, often 
  found in “retired privies”, are on display. The hours
   are very limited. On their website it’s recorded as
    “Most Wednesdays, 12-4 pm” so call ahead to confirm.

Historic Rittenhouse Town | Wissahickon Valley Park, 
Philadelphia 
Take a trip back in time to America’s First paper mill 
founded in 1690. Visit several buildings still standing 
and walk around the arboretum, home to over 80 species of 
trees and shrubs. Schedule a tour of the 1707 Homestead,
 participate in a historic paper-making workshop, or
  simply enjoy the grounds on a one-hour tour-led hike. 

If you check the above off your list and are still 
looking for something to shake up your routine, check 
our our Self Guided and Group Tours blog.  We always 
recommend keeping an eye on the Preservation Alliance 
of Philadelphia as they have brilliant lectures and events
 throughout the area. See you out there! 
 